### Arjuna Test Project Structure

A fixed project structure to be followed for an Arjuna test project. This brings consitency across mutliple test automation implementations within and outside your organization.

Following are critical project directories, sub-directories and files. *Arjuna could be creating other directories corresponding to some in-progress or experimental features. They are not listed here.*

Please also note that some of these directories are mandatory as a part of Arjuna test project structure. When you create project using `create-project` command from Arjuna CLI, Arjuna places `placeholder.txt` files so that when you check-in your code in a code repository, empty directories are not ignored during check-in. It is advised to retain them, until you make use of them by placing files in them as per your project needs.

- **config**: Contains configuration files.
  - **project.conf**: Your project's configuration file containing project-level configuration settings.
  - **env**: This directory can contain any number of conf files that correspond to options for run-environments.
  - If you place any `.conf` files directly in this directory or in a sub-directory herein, they can be found by Arjuna using the name or relative path.
- **data**: Contains files that act as data sources and data references (WIP).
    - **source**: Data source files go here.
    - **reference**: Data reference files go here.
        - **column**: Excel Column Data References for auto-loading
        - **row**: Excel Row Data References for auto-loading
- **l10n**: Contains localizaation files
    - **excel**: Excel based localization files go here.
    - **json**: Json based localization directories and files go here.
- **guiauto**: Contains GUI automation related files.
  - **driver**: Arjuna automatically downloads drivers. In case you switch this off in a configuration, Arjuna picks Selenium driver executables from this directory in respective OS folders.
  - **namespace**: GNS (Gui Namespace) files go here.
 - **report**: Reports are generated here. Each test run is associated with a run-id.
    - **Timestamp-RunID**: Root directory of report for a given run. If `--static-rid` is provided then the directory is named as the run id that you provide with `-rid` CLI option or as the default run id which is `mrun`.
      - **html**: HTML report (report.html) generated by pytest-html plugin goes here.
      - **log**: arjuna.log file can be found here.
      - **screenshot**: Contains screenshots taken for a test run.
      - **xml**: JUnit-style XML report (report.xml) goes here. It is primarily meant for Jenkins or other CI software intergrations with Arjuna.
 - **test**: Contains test files. As of now Arjuna supports coded tests only.
    - **module**: Coded tests are written as Python modules and are placed here. Sub-packaging of modules is allowed.
    - **conftest.py**: This is pytest's conftest.py file 
- **script**: This directory is meant to contain Arjuna scripts (or your own custom scripts or batch files.)
  - **arjuna_launcher.py**: This is the script which is used to run your tests by invoking Arjuna.
